there's obviously a lot of people out
there that reference things like
outbound as dead or dying or like that
AI is going to replace first SCS and
then account Executives all that good
stuff there's a bunch of reasons why I
don't believe any of that but there's
one like very important and obvious
reason that every time somebody says
that I'm like you clearly don't do
outbound well or at scale and the
reality is that's because 50% of our
demos that are booked in outbound are
booked over the phone and I thought it
was crazy like I don't particularly
answer my phone call to cold calls and
all that kind up and so it feels so
unnatural that would be how it's done
but in this month in September alone
we'll book probably 1,300 outbound demos
across our various different outbound
teams and literally 50% of them
scheduled like on the phone good morning
zaster thank you all so much for being
here before we jump in huge shout out to
the team at saster for putting on just
the best conference in the world as it
comes to startups the hall with the Expo
for the vendors is packed and as I walk
around everybody just the biggest smile
on their face so everybody's so happy to
be here so incredible job to team saster
on yet another amazing event my name is
Sam blonde I in addition to hosting
saster cro confidential series I've been
in Tech sales for something like 15
years most recently cro at brex I was at
Founders fund as a partner for a couple
years and just recently started my own
company as co-founder and CEO I'm joined
by an incredible human one of my best
friends in the world his name is Matt
plank Welcome Matt thank you for being
here Matt is arguably the best Revenue
leader in the world right now we did a
series with for C confidential maybe 18
months ago and Matt talked about being
the first sales go to market higher at
ripling in Parker's basement when there
was zero dollars of Revenue and we fast
forward to today and Rippling is a 14
plus billion dollar many thousands of
employees I think 1500 folks in the
revenue organization several hundred
million dollar of ARR and Matt grew that
organization and that Revenue number
from making cold calls in Parker's
basement just a few years ago so very
few people have accomplished something
like this and my intuition is you're
just getting started as is ripling
congrats on all the success and thanks
for being here yeah thank you appreciate
it so today we're going to do as the
title would suggest a deep dive into
ripling top three growth tactics as we
were talking through what we wanted to
talk about we categor ized the go to
market organization and ripling revenue
into three different stages and then we
went deeper on each of them and so
that's what we're going to do here those
stages are going to be demand gen we're
going to focus more specifically on
outbound which makes up the majority of
uh Rippling revenue from an attribution
standpoint we're then going to move on
to closing revenue and then we're going
to finish with serving customers and
expanding Revenue in the base so we'll
Jump Right In let's start with outbound
as I alluded to in the intro outbound
started with Matt in Parker's basement
writing cold emails dropping people in
sequences and making cold calls why
don't you just talk us through the
evolution of outbound at Rippling from
those early days to where it is today
yeah so I think you nail that in the
early days what we referred to as
outbound was really programmatic
outbound that was led by marketing which
was me in the early days in the basement
until we then hired our CMO Matt epin at
the time and I think programmatic
outbound I think makes a lot of sense
when you're a small company mostly
because it's essentially free you got to
build your database by the right tools
but you don't have to staff an entire
SDR team to go after the accounts and so
programmatic out about makes a lot of
sense you have virtually an unlimited
Tam you can there's hundreds of
thousands of accounts that you could go
after and then eventually for us we did
really programmatic outbound up until
about two years ago and two years ago we
were looking at our next year's growth
plan and we were looking at the Vue that
we wanted to get to and we ran into this
constraint of we literally don't have
enough accounts in our database to
continue to get the yield that we get on
our programmatic Outreach and so it was
like this really big moment in the
company actually where all of a sudden
our growth was going to hit this like
major constraint simply because like our
database wasn't big enough and it took
us five to six years to get to that
point but it became a huge really a huge
bottle deck for the company and so at
the time we were getting around like a
50 bips to 1% conversion on programmatic
out balance so we would reach out to a
th000 accounts and we would get
basically somewhere between 5 to 10
demos right through the programmatic op
now they were basically free like the
INB we basically had inbound sdrs that
would schedule those like engage on the
responses but like they had quotas of I
think 50 or 60 demos a month so it was
like a very highly transactional like
very CAC efficient model and so fast
forward though like you the database
wasn't big enough to scale to getting
five 50 bips to % and if you fast
forward to today 18 months later we have
about 150 outbound strs and the
conversion that we get is between 3 to
7% on the same accounts right and so if
we now reach out to a th accounts
depending on the segment we get anywhere
from 30 to 70 demos right obviously you
would look at that and be like of course
why wouldn't any why would anybody want
10 demos if you could get 30 to 70 and
the reality is you have to staff 150
person outbound team which is not just
out sdrs but man ERS directors like VPS
like you've got to build the whole
machine and so it's really important to
be able to find a way for your business
to be able to support that kind of
investment meaning you need to be able
to have the average deal sizes that make
sense you need to be able to like in
fact close outbound deals with win rates
that make sense there's a whole bunch of
things I think people you can't just
decide you want to go do outbound and
and go do it because it's a pretty big
investment but for us it was probably
the single biggest thing of the revenue
org in the past 18 months of getting us
where we are is really the single
biggest thing for next year in terms of
growing at the scale that we're at now
okay quick recap and then I'll ask a
question which is where my mind goes on
the recap side you really started with
marketing owned programmatic outbound
where marketing was determining building
the database determining who to reach
out to what to say and then just
effectively blasting the universe with
marketing templated email copy inbound
sdrs were Fielding the responses to that
so you didn't have an outbound SDR
organization until something like 18
months ago started building that because
you realized that the sort of Roi on the
number of accounts that you were
reaching out to was reaching diminishing
returns and you wanted to staff humans
to get higher yield on the accounts that
you were targeting where my mind goes
with that is something like in today's
world Playing devil's advocate couldn't
like a really
sophisticated marketing organization
with account scoring determining the
highest Roi accounts to go after using
AI to write like really creative email
copy would wouldn't that be like more
effective arguably than having a
22-year-old SDR assigned an account
figuring out how to treat this account
and try and generate a demo like why why
is this yielding higher results yeah I
think there's two pieces to that
question I think the first one is
there's obviously a lot of people out
there I think these these days that
reference things like outbound as dead
or dying or like that AI is going to
replace first SCS and then account
Executives all that good stuff there's a
bunch of reasons why I don't believe any
of that but there's one like very
important and obvious reason that every
time somebody says that I'm like you
clearly don't do outbound well or at
scale and the reality is that's because
50% of our demos that are booked in
outbound are booked over the phone that
was a shocking stat to me when we hired
Ashley Kelly who runs our outbound sales
org 18 months ago credit to her really
for building the outbound sales org if I
was building it personally I'm sure we
would not be doing anywhere near as well
as we are but she was like yes like this
still work and I thought it was crazy
like I don't particularly answer my
phone call to cold calls and all that
kind of stuff and so it feels so
unnatural that would be how it's done
but in this month in September alone
we'll book probably 1,300 outbound demos
across our various different outbound
teams and literally 50% of them
scheduled like on the phone right and so
obviously AI can help with a bunch of
pieces the kind of hierarchy of what you
do an outbound but I don't think AI is
going to be like booking demos over the
phone anytime soon uh and so this just
not really um realistic um I think if I
go through the the like you asked kind
of a slightly different question around
why is outbound effective like what are
the humans doing essentially that you
know that you can't uh do
programmatically and I think first off
just run through like at a high level
what are the things that an outpat Sr
does and then double click on like where
does AI we actually do use AI for a
bunch of pieces of the process but the
first one is like account fit like going
after the right accounts probably
nothing more important than going after
the right accounts which like seems
obvious but we spend a lot of time going
after like some of the wrong accounts
and when I say accounts fit I mean we
use rules-based heris sixs industry size
like kind of Common Sense things you can
develop and build like in your revops
stack and then we have an ml model on
top of that like the data science team
owns to figure out like okay within
something like manufacturing which might
be red industry for us or something
that's harder to get Traction in there
are a lot of heris sixs about a company
that might make them more likely to
respond to things like how long have
they been around for how many like
what's their social media presence how
many followers do they have on Twitter
LinkedIn whatever so we use some
combination of like rules based and then
a kind of ml model to sit on top of that
and basically provide to the SCS like
these are the best accounts and then
stack ranking them within there I think
the second big piece is who do you reach
out to your Tam is really constrained by
the number of contacts not the number of
accounts if you have a million accounts
and one Persona to reach out to you have
a million contacts but if you can reach
out to four five six seven different
people within an account obviously it
massively expands your Tam and so it's
about accounts fit first and foremost
and then it's about like contact
stocking and when we talk about AI of
course you can ingest into your database
all the contacts at a company but like
they're generally not good on average
for four months right and then
immediately like like a large percentage
of them are out of date because people
move companies they don't update their
role in the company like new people join
the company and so you have to have a
human to look at the account and the
contacts and it can save them time if
everything's good but our scrs are
frequently like adding new people into
our database like in real time as they
go through so who do you go after the
right contacts I think the second two
big things for us is are very marketing
Le which is what we call intent signals
and event signals intent signals are
obvious marketing does a great job
harvesting the things like going to
review sites going to demo sites all the
different interactions with our brand
content downloads whatever and like
pushing that into the CRM so the SDR can
like see that people are interacting
events like uh job change is a big one
for us number one easiest time to reach
out to somebody to buy something is when
they've joined a new company and they're
evaluating their systems fundraising
Acquisitions all that good kind of stuff
and so you're going through the few
different things here and then the last
two pieces personalization obviously I
think more important today than it was
even three years ago AI will personalize
some things to give you an example of
the the downsides of AI personalization
I was shatting with Sam about this we
get a template generated from one of our
AI vendors that's that I think automates
like the research and not necessarily
sending the email and here's a good
example why there was an SDR who had a
template and it was basically generated
by the AI and what it happened was what
Prospect had posted on Linked In
something about like their father had
passed away and it was a very nice
sentimental post about their father
picture whatever in the AI the AI
template was like Hey saw that your
father passed away very sorry to hear
that you should check out
ripling it was literally like in in a
lot of people would just be like clicks
in right like the generated the template
cuz 90% of them are actually pretty good
and so I think it's about AI can
automate research and like filter scrape
the interwebs and like filter you things
but I don't think necessarily that they
should be like sending all of emails and
the last thing is really about
saturation and it's the most important
thing you've got to be able to like
email people send them a LinkedIn
request call them leave them a voicemail
as somebody who gets prospected to a lot
if you harass not harass me that's the
wrong word if you come at me from every
different Channel around eventually I'm
going to remember the name and I'm going
to remember finally I'm going to more
I'm going to be more likely to respond
even if it's a no I'm not interested or
not right now versus if you're just
sending emails it's like very easy to
just ignore those forever and never
responds write accounts write contacts
personalizing everything obviously but
it's really about like saturation at the
end of the day and obviously cold calls
I mentioned we book 50% of our demos
awesome really interesting on the just
wrapping up on the outbound topic any
sort of like last outbound is
interesting because it's the type of
thing where if we were having this
conversation in
2018 the tactics that we would be
leveraging and talking about would be
different from 2020 to 2022 now we're
here in 2024 so this is like an Ever
revolving process when and the market
like saturates specific tactics the
industry evolves and new things start
happening again we talked about AI we
wouldn't have been talking about the
sort of automated email personalization
example that you just described two
years of two years ago any sort of like
specific tactics that you think you're
on The Cutting Edge of right now I I'd
say that there's one specific bucket of
tactics that I think are important that
I think of as like required to do the
job but I recognize a lot of marketing
don't and the second one is almost like
more oldfashioned to your point
everyone's Ai and things like this I
think picking up the phone and calling
people is like a lost art I think a lot
of companies just don't do that anymore
and it may even be why it's more
effective today is because everyone's
cold calling doesn't work we got to do
other things but I think probably the
biggest one for us is the marketing
investment in like we used to capture
intent and like send a programmatic
email right hey you're on our website
right here's an email hey you went to a
review site here's an email and so I
think it's the evolution of just
realizing if you go back again a few
years ago people didn't even capture
intent in that way right if you go back
10 years ago when we were building SDR
teams at denefits it was like you spread
it wasn't even Outreach right it was
like yesware or whatever is the first
tool and so I think marketing has come a
long way where it's very easy now to
capture like the intent and the
interaction with your brand but most
companies just click automate
programmatic sent and so for us it's
about marketing being like hey we can
partner together they don't get credit
per se if they're like filtering us the
information and the outbound team books
it but I I do think that having a tight
partnership with marketing and not
feeling like you care who gets credit is
really important because then it allows
them to allocate a bunch of their budget
at things that actually produce outbound
generated S2 so marketing alignment and
then good old fashion like The
Innovation is actually going back in
time and like picking up the phone and
calling people I think uh it does still
work awesome quick recap on outbound
we'll move on to closing Revenue
there are a couple things that come to
mind that Rippling is like bucking the
trend on here the first is there's this
like meme of outbound is dead I think
Matt you gave me the stat that something
like 50% of our revenue is sourced from
outbound and going forward we're
forecasting 60% of our Revenue to be
sourced from outbound and that like
bucks this trend and concept that
outbound is dead the other one is AI is
going to automate away the human SDR and
you've gone from zero outbound sdrs 18
months ago to 150 today and I imagine
the acceleration of that team from a
headcount standpoint will continue to
increase and so two things that are
counterintuitive or contrarian compared
to the sort of sentiment in the market
today the other thing that stands out
that you said is that 50% of the demos
50% of the revenue come from cold
calling um and I I just think like with
outbound there are two things that come
to mind that lead to Effectiveness and
if you're
not if you're not taking advantage of
these two things you're probably not
being successful in outbound the first
is the the concept of hustling it's easy
to create a email sequence and send it
to hundreds of people with the click of
a mouse where I'm to merge in your first
name or something like that picking up
the phone and cold calling somebody it's
harder and generally speaking human
nature is to not want to do that it's
easier to click the send the email I'll
tell a very quick story I even remember
the company but it's something that I
will always remember in the early days
at brecks our office manager came to me
and said there's somebody here to see
you with a delivery and one of the sdrs
from a company uh called Talk desk had
come to our office said they were a
delivery person to like bypass getting
into the office asked if they could
speak with me and so they were like door
knocking and so that's sending an email
is easy picking up the phone is hard
door knocking and showing up at
somebody's office to pitch them on
taking a meeting much harder and so the
more like effort put in probably the
higher yield um because you definitely
will stand out more and then the second
thing is just around being creative you
want to stand out not do what everyone
else is doing because it will just reach
diminishing returns over time okay with
that let's move on to closing customers
so Rippling I think is famous for the
the concept of a compound startup I
think Parker and Rippling really
invented that term and what compound
startup means is Rippling today has
something like 30 product individual
product offerings what you all call SKS
rling started with four product
individual products and has grown into
again this concept of a compound startup
where launching many new products on a
regular basis versus sort of a point
solution which would be the antithesis
of a compound startup I think many
companies many startups are evolving
into this compound startup approach and
at a minimum many startups are launching
new products in order to be able to
accelerate Revenue growth so I thought
this would be a really interesting topic
for us to go deeper on let's start with
how this like compound startup approach
manifested in the goom market
organization structure to begin with
which I think was again as I said like
four products and maybe one salesperson
that sold the entire Suite the entire
Rippling offering today we're at 30
offering 30 different products in a much
more complicated go to market
organization so if you can just tell us
about the evolution of how this compound
startup approach manifested in the go to
market organization um so yeah to to
your point there's a journey along the
way from four skes to 30 obviously and I
think for the longest time as we kept
launching more products we convinced
ourselves and that like that that if you
couldn't keep up with the velocity of
product launches is a rep like maybe it
wasn't a rep who could maybe it was a
rep that like wasn't going to make it or
it couldn't work out there was a belief
that was you train the new reps and then
all of a sudden a couple weeks later
they don't understand the product like
come on we trained you why don't you
understand this thing and they just it
got to a point where it was very clear
that like even the best reps on the team
they just could not absorb any more
information about a new set of products
and the reality is that as we went
through this process and learned like
painfully along the way because we did
try obviously before we sna to this like
different or structure we were not
winning in the way that we needed to
which is why we forced to change versus
having the knowing that this would come
and being able to predict it but once we
got to around like 15 SKS or something
the reality was what really happened
like we had been launching SKS up to
that point they were all similar to our
core buyer similar to like our core
product Suite they were like very very
close attachments most people would buy
them during the same sales process and
then what happened was we launched a set
of skes really was at the same time
around the same time we launched our
finance suite and then we launched our
Global payroll suite and when we
launched the finance Suite we were like
directly competing with brex with ramp
with like really great products good go
to market organizations like companies
that were doing really well very well
respected on the global side it was deal
and remote and papaya Global and so
something changed when we tried to have
it was like the 12th skew the 13 skew
all the same buyer same category of
products it was like working okay and
then once we had a core rep trying to
sell as the 15th skew and compete with a
new logo Rapid brex or ramp like we were
just getting our butts kicked like it
wasn't we were just like this doesn't
like we couldn't iterate fast enough we
couldn't keep up with the collateral all
these things that were just breaking and
so we decided at that moment we need to
build what what we launched which is
basically our product account executive
or and the easiest way to visualize and
describe it is there's three teams that
sell stuff at
there's the core new logo rep who
touches every single new logo on the way
in the door there's the account
management team who owns every single
customer post sale so those are like
mutually exclusive and then there's a
product AE or that like straddles the
middle right that for some products the
new logo rep just closes them on their
own and for some products the new logo
rep tags in the product to like co-sell
a deal together and then on the account
management side similar Dynamic they're
like some SKS were like they own that
kind of cross- sell the customers and
there are those same set of SKS where
they tag in this product AE and
essentially coell that deal together and
there's a whole bunch of uh reasons why
we did that and benefits from that that
I can go into you a little bit deeper
but to give you at least a backdrop of
is like a pretty we wouldn't have been a
even when we launch new products today I
just think about when we launch them
it's man what would we do if we didn't
have this product a oron we were
launching this into 250 new logo reps
and trying to train them all super
helpful and and I think the reason that
this is such an interesting topic is I I
talk with Founders all the time and one
of the more and and increasingly so one
of the more common conversations I'm
having is around launching a new product
and how should we as a startup approach
the the launch of this product to make
make it most effective and so through
that lens probably a lot of folks in the
audience that have multi-products in
their company today are planning on
launching additional products how do you
determine whether a new product launch
receives a dedicated sales rep versus
having the existing sales rep sales team
just add that to the suite of what they
are already selling yeah one it's a
great question because there is I had to
develop a very specific point of view on
this because Parker our CEO every single
new product we launched he'd be like new
sales like he was addicted do the idea
of a small team that could go sell this
but it's not you can't have to your
point like you can't have 30 product
teams it's an just it's not man you
can't manage it the complexity and so we
did have to come up with a framework of
every time we launched probably five new
products like every year so we did have
to come up with like when we launch a
new product which path does it go down
and I think the first one and probably
most obvious one is who's the buyer
who's the person who's the Persona that
you're selling to now not to be confused
with our core buyer is HR are right
selling a HDM product payroll benefits
talent management all that kind of stuff
and obviously for most companies like a
CFO is involved in a decision to buy
usually our product but they're not like
signing up for a demo they're not
generally leading the evaluation and
when we launch things where like the HR
buyer is the one who's like clicking
demo requests and filling out their name
we tend to lean that to the coure te
when we launch the finance site it was
very clear that the person who was going
in and filling out like a demo request
was a CFO or an accountant or a
controller or whatever right and so the
buyer shifted to a new kind of persona
which has a whole bunch of different
ways like different ways that you sell
to them different things they care about
different pricing strategy different
negotiation so it's like this very
different thing and that that's one
criteria is what's the Persona if you're
selling the it if you're selling the
front office it's once you're managing
things that are very polarly different
that's obviously the first thing that we
look at it's the first set of okay do we
evaluate and then we move to the second
step and the second step is a really
important one and definitely required
and that is do the unit Economics work
to build a sales team right if you have
15 products where you charge five to $10
pepen for all of them and you launch a
16th product where you also charge $10
pepen like you can't build the whole
sales team around a single skew where
like the unit economics St you can't set
the quotas high enough you can't fund
the leadership highers you can't do that
but a lot of teams when they're
constructed right and they have a much
higher kind of pepm or Revenue
opportunity for that particular skew or
set of SKS like now you can all of a
sudden build like a mini little or chart
because having a rep who's a product AE
that in itself does not get you even
halfway there to what you need you need
to be able to have the Reps the managers
the director and most importantly you
need the like mini cro who spends every
single second of their day thinking
about like how do I be the competitors
in this space right when I think about
launching Finance Cloud as an example um
of course Brax and ramp and these guys
were like good competitors and I wanted
to be involved and like how do we win
and what do we do and what product do we
need to build and how do we compete
against them and I was involved in some
of that in like the launch but two
months later three months later we were
already iterating on all of the strategy
and I simply couldn't keep up with it
like I needed the like mini cro type of
person to come in and run this or almost
like an incubated inside of like broader
Rippling and that person meets with
product all day long and figures out
like what are the right products that we
actually need to build what does a go to
market team need which is sometimes not
exactly what product thinks that we need
they're meeting with marketing to make
sure that the collateral the kind of
competitor battle cards like all the
enablement stuff and most importantly
making sure that the demand gen works
right like when you think about product
AES they get their demos from new logo
reps that bring them in and from C
account managers who bring them into
customers and so it doesn't just happen
organically the product leaders are
uh poking into the new logo sales organ
be like hey I see new logo rep that
you're talking to this company that's
like an e-commerce like why the hell am
I not invited into this opportunity for
our finance spe product it's perfect fit
and so having that like VP sales leader
be able to probe deeper into new logo
sales or probe deeper into the customer
base and create their own demand gen
like you don't get that if you have like
a sales engineer or Solutions consultant
like you don't get the same thing and so
it's essentially like the persona
can you make enough money to fund it and
by the way when we launch new products
and we know that they really need to be
a product Le org we actually think about
the pricing with that backdrop we like
we need to be able to make sure that we
can price this in a way where we can
fund that type of environment and then
the last thing is can it be purchased is
a phase two project right if you launch
a new product but it's always part of
the initial evaluation then like it's
pretty hard to have a product team that
owns it um but if you launch products
where someone might buy your core
product and then it's okay they'll buy
the the the second product later then
again it makes more sense because if
you're not attached at the new logo you
just follow the journey over the
customer and like now you can still go
in the opportunity there so those are
the three like very important things
that we evaluate even as we're like
building the product and thinking about
how do we build it or how do we price it
um to make sure that we can get it into
that construct if we need to okay
awesome and so then just a bit of a
recap starting at the highest level the
theme of this conversation is growth
tactics the most impactful growth
tactics that it's accelerated Revenue
growth within Rippling one layer deeper
it's when you went to multi- sales teams
multiple sales teams dedicated to
selling specific products that change
was one of the three most important
things that you have done to accelerate
Revenue growth at ripling and then if uh
folks in the audience want a pattern
match on how to decide when you have a
dedicated sales team for a product there
are three criteria that you should
consider the first is is the um decision
maker or the buyer different from the
decision maker in your initial core
product offering the second thing is do
the economics make sense can we charge
enough for the product to support salese
dedicated to sell it and then the third
thing is can this product operate on its
own as an independent product offering
and so if those three criteria exist as
you launch a new product at least if you
want to follow the riving Playbook you
should start with a dedicated sales team
to sell that product versus attaching it
to your existing Suite of products that
your sales rep is selling yeah
absolutely okay let's keep going
servicing customers we're just like
moving down the uh customer life cycle
here similar to the other two topics the
way that you have serviced customers
especially as you've introduced this
product complexity has evolved over time
I think you start started with and this
is by the way um another one of these
topics that I hear about all the time
which is like should we do csms should
the csms just focus on Revenue retention
who owns upsell in these accounts is
that a separate person I think you've
evolved with the business over the
course of the last several years just
tell us like how you have evolved and
then we'll get to like major takeaways
in terms of what you would recommend
folks doing in terms of structuring a
customer servicing organization to
optimize for Revenue yeah yeah I think
one of the lessons early on I remember
asking our CEO Parker like why can't we
have csm's and account managers and he
was like doesn't work like that you have
to pick one and I think I've learned and
I think my biggest one of the most OB
for just for a qualification CSM is more
empathy oriented retention focused
account manager is more like Revenue
oriented person servicing and upselling
the accounts yeah from my perspective
customer success manager CSM like does
not own a does not own a new business
new Revenue quota they can I don't
recommend it an account manager to your
point like owns a dollar quota is like
managed just like an account executive
and so I think it's about some of it's
about your company in the structure and
also it's it different motions make
sense at different times so when we
launched our company back years ago and
we had four products we couldn't have
account managers because we sold all
four products to pretty much every
single customer that signed up right
there was nothing to sell them after the
the fact and so we had customer success
managers one because there wasn't it
there was no Revenue to capture post
sale and two early on series a series B
it's like everybody needs to have deep
empathy for the customer right hopefully
that's true long term and and the bigger
you get the more you have to reinforce
that but certainly when you're small and
you're getting your first 100 200
customers like it helps to have a CSM
who's I don't think they would refer to
themselves this way but they end up
becoming like escalated support at the
end the day right it's like there's a
support team that can do all the
day-to-day transaction stuff who's not
on calls generally and so the support
team can be more responsive but when
there's not like a comprehensive enough
response it will get escalated to a CSM
and a CSM can like help make sure that
they're taken care of and so early on we
had csms as the only kind of post sales
resource and we really did that for up
until probably four years in and we
launched products a lot sooner than four
years in and so there was this time
period where we were launching products
and had the customer success managers
who owned post-sale customer
relationship and what would happen is
they would when somebody wanted to buy a
new product they would floated back to
the new logo rep that closed it maybe
two years ago so new logo rep's doing 20
demos a month of new logos that are much
much larger deal size and all a sudden
they're getting a customer from two
years ago that wants to come back and
buy one product as an add-on like they
don't prioritize it the same way they
don't care about it the same way it's
never going to work and so we were like
okay we got to transition and make our
CSM team own cross cell we're going to
cut off new logo that you don't ever get
cross cell anymore you only get it for
customer success and then we tried to
transition the customer success team we
had hired to be like account managers
without the title and we realized very
quickly like this does not work we hired
an entire team of customer success
managers who frankly didn't many of them
didn't even want to have a they're like
a quota I don't want a quota that's not
what I signed up for so we had to go
through this kind of painful
transformation to actually change the
role like it became account manager and
not customer success and as it became
account manager we then gave them like a
dollar quota they owned cross cell we
really tried very hard to integrate them
into the sales team and make it feel
like culturally part of sales in fact at
the time the CSM or reported into our VP
of customer experience who owned like
implementation and support and so we
actually moved it over into the sales or
probably about two years ago and so last
year they were account managers they did
an incredible job they have like
explosive growth in the customer base
that like could not have been executed
any better by that team and the
transition the new people that we hired
however when they when we transitioned
them they didn't own a retention quota
as CSF they only owned retention and as
account managers they only own new
revenue and we convinced ourselves that
we're a high velocity business they had
a lot of customers we convinced
ourselves that look if someone's
churning I don't know that an account
manager can save them necessarily it
might be a product thing that happened
or there's some reason why we don't know
that it makes sense for an AM to try to
like really chase this down I we
convinced ourselves that over 6 Months 8
months nine months and as the year went
on there were just these small moments
of time where somebody would churn and
we would go look at the interactions and
we' be like this interaction from the
account manager was clearly not the
interaction of somebody who actually
cared this person churn even though it
was part of their job meaning like we
managed them to it we had expectations
we had a Playbook right but it was like
there was a stick but there was no
carrot there was no incentive TI to it
and so we just made the decision in Q4
of last year that this year
we were going to make that team own a
retention number part of the reason we
did it or were able to do it is because
we had this product AE or and so like
they were owning sales of all of the
products post sales and we said look
you're going to own the relationship
commercially but if you need to go sell
like Finance Suite like you're going to
actually tag in an account executive
who's going to own the demo the
evaluation the negotiation like all of
the things they were owning and so all a
sudden it opened up some capacity and
we're like what you're going to do with
this capacity is you're going to care
about retention and we're going to
actually tie comp to retention as a
number and like just dramatically change
the the behavior and the the impact and
results this year like our Baseline of
churn and from the account management
org is like just a number that we just
massively beat every month and we were
talking about like some of the you can't
just make them own retention and comp
and then expect everything to change
that's like a starting point but you
also need to make sure that there's like
the right behavior that you uh give them
time for and allow them to do so that
they can do the things that actually do
impact retention but if I could go back
and do it all over again definitely
would have not ever thought that like
someone could own like technically own
retention as a company goal and not own
it as like an individual goal that'll
never work okay in the interest of time
just to recap where you are today and I
think what you would wish you had done
earlier and every business is going to
be different and more nuanced but the
structure that you would have done
earlier in where you are today as it
pertains to servicing customers is you
have a sales oriented account manager so
somebody with a background of selling
owning a revenue number and a quota they
are the sort of like face of the
business to the customer they own the
customer relationship but they do not
sell to the customer they own the number
but they pull in the sales rep that
specializes in the product to upsell the
customer they still get credit for it
they own the number but they aren't the
ones doing the actual selling
in addition to owning the revenue number
and being a a sales experienced person
just from a profile standpoint they also
own a retention number and owning the
retention number if you think about the
the concept of like incentives Drive
Behavior or the Charlie Munger show me
the incentive I'll show you the outcome
as you added the retention part to the
compensation the there were immediate
benefits in terms of improved customer
experience and in the outcome of reduced
churn and so then that's how you would
structure a servicing organization
knowing everything day yeah and we
chatted about this decision where if you
have to choose between a CSM profile
that's going to own revenue or an
account manager profile that needs to be
like customer success oriented 100 times
out of 100 I'm picking the account
manager that needs to be customer
oriented because you can teach a revenue
generating person you have empathy for a
customer right it's a cultural thing
that you have to humans can learn you
you can't make at large a CSM or like w
to be a quota carrying Revenue
generating team it's just it's a
different profile and I think certainly
there's people from both groups that you
could make cross over but I think you're
talking about like 100% Oregon
transforming them and what's the profile
you're going to build I I would always
go with sign me up for a quota like
that's what I want to do and teach them
the empathy for the customer I think
that the trade-off that that you should
make awesome we're going to wrap up on
that note thank you so much everyone for
attending the session thank you Matt
awesome job and have a great best of
disaster thanks everyone